---
layout: post
title: Otto
slug: poodle
category: software development
date: 2021-04-29T06:18:00.389Z
---


A few things to note.

* We set the `slug` to `'{{year}}-{{month}}-{{day}}-{{slug}}'` because [Jekyll requires this format for blog posts](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/#creating-posts). `year`, `month`, and `day` will be extracted from the `date` field, and `slug` will be generated from the `title` field.
* We added `editor` configuration with a field `preview: false`. This will eliminate the preview pane. Because Jekyll uses Liquid templates, there currently isn't a good way to provide a preview of pages as you update the content.
* The `layout` field default is set to `post` so Jekyll knows to use `_layouts/post.html` when it renders a post. This field is hidden because we want all posts to use the same layout.
* The `date` and `title` field will be used by the `slug` - as noted above, Jekyll relies on the filename to determine a post's publish date, but Netlify CMS does not pull date information from the filename and requires a frontmatter `date` field. **Note** Changing the `date` or `title` fields in Netlify CMS will not update the filename. This has a few implications:

  * If you change the `date` or `title` fields in Netlify CMS, Jekyll won't notice
  * You don't necessarily need to change the `date` and `title` fields for existing posts, but if you don't the filenames and frontmatter will disagree in a way that might be confusing
  * If you want to avoid these issues, use a regular Jekyll collection instead of the special `_posts` directory